[Docs] drt documentation (#3631)
The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD: src/drt/README.md

# Detailed Routing

> TritonRoute is an open-source detailed router for modern industrial

Reviewer: The Detailed Routing (`drt`) module in OpenROAD is based on the open-source Triton Route...

Reviewer: Replicate similar phrase for other tools.

## Commands

```{note}
- Parameters in square brackets `[-param param]` are optional.
- Parameters without square brackets `-param2 param2` are required.
```

### Detailed Route

```tcl
detailed_route 
    [-output_maze filename]
    [-output_drc filename]
    [-output_cmap filename]
    [-output_guide_coverage filename]
    [-drc_report_iter_step step]
    [-db_process_node name]
    [-disable_via_gen]
    [-droute_end_iter iter]
    [-via_in_pin_bottom_layer layer]
    [-via_in_pin_top_layer layer]
    [-or_seed seed]
    [-or_k_ k]
    [-bottom_routing_layer layer]
    [-top_routing_layer layer]
    [-verbose level]
    [-distributed]
    [-remote_host rhost]
    [-remote_port rport]
    [-shared_volume vol]
    [-cloud_size sz]
    [-clean_patches]
    [-no_pin_access]
    [-min_access_points count]
    [-save_guide_updates]
    [-repair_pdn_vias layer]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |

> | `-output_maze` | Path to output maze log file (e.g. `.output.maze.log`). |
> | `-output_drc` | Path to output drc report file (e.g. `.output.drc.rpt`). |
> | `-output_cmap` | Path to output congestion map file (e.g. `.output.cmap`). |
> | `-output_guide_coverage` | Path to output guide coverage file (e.g. `_sample_coverage.csv`). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-output_maze` | Path to output maze log file (e.g. `output.maze.log`). |
| `-output_drc` | Path to output DRC report file (e.g. `output.drc.rpt`). |
| `-output_cmap` | Path to output congestion map file (e.g. `output.cmap`). |
| `-output_guide_coverage` | Path to output guide coverage file (e.g. `sample_coverage.csv`). |
```

> | `-drc_report_iter_step` | Report drc on each iteration which is a multiple of this step (default 0, integer). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-drc_report_iter_step` | Report DRC on each iteration, which is a multiple of this step (default 0, integer). |
```

| `-db_process_node` | Specify the process node. |
| `-disable_via_gen` | Option to diable via generation with bottom and top routing layer. (default not set) | 
| `-droute_end_iter` | Number of detailed routing iterations (must be a positive integer <= 64). |
| `-via_in_pin_bottom_layer` | Via-in pin bottom layer name. |
| `-via_in_pin_top_layer` | Via-in pin top layer name. |
| `-or_seed` | Random seed for the order of nets to reroute (default -1, integer). | 

> | `-or_k` | Number of swaps is given by $k * sizeof(rerouteNets)$ (default 0, integer). |

Reviewer: Move to developer args section.

| `-bottom_routing_layer` | Bottommost routing layer name. |
| `-top_routing_layer` | Topmost routing layer name. |
| `-verbose` | Sets verbose mode if the value is greater than 1, else non-verbose mode (must be integer, or error will be triggered.) |
| `-distributed` | Enable distributed mode with Kubernetes and Google Cloud, [guide](./doc/Distributed.md). |
| `-remote_host` | The host IP. |
| `-remote_port` | The value of the port to access from. |
| `-shared_volume` | The mount path of the nfs shared folder. |

> | `-cloud_size` | The number of workers. |

Reviewer: Let's group the `-distributed` options in a separated table. A note about the need for additional setup is required.

| `-clean_patches` | Clean unneeded patches during detailed routing. | 

> | `-no_pin_access` | Disables pin access for routing. |

Reviewer: Move to developer args section.

| `-min_access_points` | Minimum access points for standard cell and macro cell pins. | 
| `-save_guide_updates` | Flag to save guides updates. |

> | `-repair_pdn_vias` | This option is used for some PDKs which have M1 and M2 layers that run in parallel. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-repair_pdn_vias` | This option is used for PDKs where M1 and M2 power rails run in parallel. |
```

> ### Detailed Route debugging
> 
> ```tcl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Detailed Route Debugging

The following command and arguments are useful when debugging error messages from `drt` and to understand its behavior.
```tcl
```

detailed_route_debug 
    [-pa]
    [-ta]
    [-dr]
    [-maze]
    [-net name]
    [-pin name]
    [-worker x y]
    [-iter iter]
    [-pa_markers]
    [-dump_dr]
    [-dump_dir dir]
    [-pa_edge]
    [-pa_commit]
    [-write_net_tracks]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `-pa` | Enable debug for pin access. |
| `-ta` | Enable debug for track assignment. |
| `-dr` | Enable debug for detailed routing. |
| `-maze` | Enable debug for maze routing. | 
| `-net` | Enable debug for net name. |
| `-pin` | Enable debug for pin name. |
| `-worker` | Debugs routes that pass through the point `{x, y}`. |
| `-iter` | Specifies the number of debug iterations. (default 0, integer) |
| `-pa_markers` | Enable pin access markers. |
| `-dump_dr` | Filename for detailed routing dump. |
| `-dump_dir` | Directory for detailed routing dump. |
| `-pa_edge` | Enable visibility of pin access edges. |
| `-pa_commit` | Enable visibility of pin access commits. |
| `-write_net_tracks` | Enable writing of net track assigments. |

> ### Check Pin access 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check Pin Access 

The `pin_access` command computes the access points to make sure the router can connect to the pins while respecting the design rules.

```

```tcl
pin_access
    [-db_process_node name]
    [-bottom_routing_layer layer]
    [-top_routing_layer layer]
    [-min_access_points count]
    [-verbose level]
    [-distributed]
    [-remote_host rhost]
    [-remote_port rport]
    [-shared_volume vol]
    [-cloud_size sz]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `-db_process_node` | specify for process node | 
| `-bottom_routing_layer` | bottommost routing layer |
| `-top_routing_layer` | topmost routing layer |
| `-min_access_points` | minimum number of access points per pin |
| `-verbose` | set verbose if the value is greater than 0 |
| `-distributed` | enable distributed pin access algorithm |
| `-remote_host` | the host IP |
| `-remote_port` | the value of the port to access from |
| `-shared_volume` | the mount path of the nfs shared folder |
| `-cloud_size` | the number of workers |

### Useful developer functions

> If you are a developer, you might find these useful. More details can be found in the [source file](./src/TritonRoute.cpp) or the [swig file](./src/TritonRoute.i).

Reviewer 2: These are download links. Can you point them to the source in the OR repo?

> If you are a developer, you might find these useful. More details can be found in the [source file](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/tree/master/src/drt/src/TritonRoute.cpp) or the [swig file](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/tree/master/src/drt/src/TritonRoute.i).

Reviewer: Has the need for a full link issue been resolved? I think I saw relative links in other PRs. Please use the same format for all.

```
detailed_route_set_default_via [-via]   # set default via 
detailed_route_set_unidirectional_layer [-layer] # set unidirectional layer
step_dr # refer to function detailed_route_step_drt
check_drc   # refer to function check_drc_cmd 
```

## Example scripts

Example script demonstrating how to run TritonRoute on a sample design of `gcd`
in the Nangate45 technology node.

```shell
./test/gcd_nangate45.tcl    # single machine example
./test/gcd_nangate45_distributed.tcl    # distributed example
```

## Regression tests

> There are a set of regression tests in `/test`. For more information, refer to this [section](../../README.md#regression-tests). 

Reviewer 2: The link here should point to the correct header under Regressions: https://openroad--3631.org.readthedocs.build/en/3631/main/README.html#regression-tests

Author: This seems to be a bug with the theme. I filed an issue with the repo maintainers, so we'll put a pin in this for now

> ```

Reviewer: Convert to a table. Is `check_drc` really only for developers?

Author: I think so, because it was under a private drt namespace.

> ./test/gcd_nangate45.tcl    # single machine example
> ./test/gcd_nangate45_distributed.tcl    # distributed example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# single machine example
./test/gcd_nangate45.tcl
# distributed example
./test/gcd_nangate45_distributed.tcl
```

| `-droute_end_iter` | Number of detailed routing iterations. The default value is `-1`, and the allowed values are integers `[1, 64]`. |
| `-via_in_pin_bottom_layer` | Via-in pin bottom layer name. |
| `-via_in_pin_top_layer` | Via-in pin top layer name. |
| `-or_seed` | Refer to developer arguments [here](#developer-arguments). |
| `-or_k` | Refer to developer arguments [here](#developer-arguments). |
| `-bottom_routing_layer` | Bottommost routing layer name. |
| `-top_routing_layer` | Topmost routing layer name. |
| `-verbose` | Sets verbose mode if the value is greater than 1, else non-verbose mode (must be integer, or error will be triggered.) |
| `-distributed` | Refer to distributed arguments [here](#distributed-arguments). |
| `-clean_patches` | Clean unneeded patches during detailed routing. | 
| `-no_pin_access` | Disables pin access for routing. |
| `-min_access_points` | Minimum access points for standard cell and macro cell pins. | 
| `-save_guide_updates` | Flag to save guides updates. |
| `-repair_pdn_vias` | This option is used for PDKs where M1 and M2 power rails run in parallel. |

> ### Developer arguments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Developer arguments
```

Reviewer: This section should be on the same level as the Options, right? Since it is for the same command.

## Commands

```{note}
- Parameters in square brackets `[-param param]` are optional.
- Parameters without square brackets `-param2 param2` are required.
```

### Detailed Route

```tcl
detailed_route 
    [-output_maze filename]
    [-output_drc filename]
    [-output_cmap filename]
    [-output_guide_coverage filename]
    [-drc_report_iter_step step]
    [-db_process_node name]
    [-disable_via_gen]
    [-droute_end_iter iter]
    [-via_in_pin_bottom_layer layer]
    [-via_in_pin_top_layer layer]
    [-or_seed seed]
    [-or_k_ k]
    [-bottom_routing_layer layer]
    [-top_routing_layer layer]
    [-verbose level]
    [-distributed]
    [-remote_host rhost]
    [-remote_port rport]
    [-shared_volume vol]
    [-cloud_size sz]
    [-clean_patches]
    [-no_pin_access]
    [-min_access_points count]
    [-save_guide_updates]
    [-repair_pdn_vias layer]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |

> | `-output_maze` | Path to output maze log file (e.g. `.output.maze.log`). |
> | `-output_drc` | Path to output DRC report file (e.g. `.output.drc.rpt`). |
> | `-output_cmap` | Path to output congestion map file (e.g. `.output.cmap`). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-output_maze` | Path to output maze log file (e.g. `output-maze.log`). |
| `-output_drc` | Path to output DRC report file (e.g. `output-drc.rpt`). |
| `-output_cmap` | Path to output congestion map file (e.g. `output.cmap`). |
```

Author: I was trying to convey the message that these could be the suffix of the filename. Example:

![image](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD/assets/39641663/fad9daf5-ca87-4ff1-a11b-504244e764e7)

Reviewer: Maybe `<NAME>.output.maze.log`. What do you think?

```{note}
Additional setup is required. Please refer to this [guide](./doc/Distributed.md).
```

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `-distributed` | Enable distributed mode with Kubernetes and Google Cloud. |
| `-remote_host` | The host IP. |
| `-remote_port` | The value of the port to access from. |
| `-shared_volume` | The mount path of the nfs shared folder. |
| `-cloud_size` | The number of workers. |

### Useful developer functions

If you are a developer, you might find these useful. More details can be found in the [source file](./src/TritonRoute.cpp) or the [swig file](./src/TritonRoute.i).

| Function Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `detailed_route_set_default_via` | Set default via. |
| `detailed_route_set_unidirectional_layer` | Set unidirectional layer. |
| `step_dr` | Refer to function `detailed_route_step_drt`. | 
| `check_drc` | Refer to function `check_drc_cmd`. |

### Useful developer arguments

Some arguments that are helpful for developers are listed here. 

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `-or_seed` | Random seed for the order of nets to reroute (default -1, integer). | 

> | `-or_k` | Number of swaps is given by $k * sizeof(rerouteNets)$ (default 0, integer). |

Author: I think right under the command will be less confusing.

> | `-or_k` | Number of swaps is given by $k * sizeof(rerouteNets)$ (default 0, integer). |

Reviewer: Sounds good.

    [-repair_pdn_vias layer]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `-output_maze` | output maze log filename |
| `-output_drc` | output drc report filename |
| `-output_cmap` | output congestion map file |
| `-output_guide_coverage` | output guide coverage filename |
| `-drc_report_iter_step` | report drc on each iteration which is a multiple of this step |
| `-db_process_node` | specify the process node (optional) |
| `-disable_via_gen` | option to diable via generation with bottom and top routing layer |
| `-droute_end_iter` | number of detailed routing iterations |
| `-via_in_pin_bottom_layer` | via-in pin bottom layer name |
| `-via_in_pin_top_layer` | via-in pin top layer name |
| `-or_seed` | random seed for the order of nets to reroute | 
| `-or_k` | number of swaps is given by $k * sizeof(rerouteNets)$ |
| `-bottom_routing_layer` | bottommost routing layer name |
| `-top_routing_layer` | topmost routing layer name |
| `-verbose` | set verbose if value is greater than 0. |

> | `-param` | you may set parameters in this argument using a file.  **note that `-param` may not be used with other keyword arguments. (deprecated)** |

Reviewer 3: @maliberty I think the param file has been deprecated for 2+ years now. Time to remove it?

Reviewer 3: #3646
